I
think you have to separate the two. I think there's
a life at sea for the people who enjoy getting away,
who enjoy discovering these things as they come
about, and there's certainly the role for people
who don't have time for this. And I have no
objection to to modelers that haven't been at sea,
provided they have done their homework and they
know what is known about the ocean in the
literature. And I think this will continue.
There's a lot more work that has to be done at sea,
and there's a particular type of individual that
enjoys doing this and prefers to do it above other
things. And I think that the modeler, it certainly
does him good to be exposed to it because he becomes
a little more tolerant as to why there isn't the
extensive database he needs, or when he says, I
would like a set of observations across the
Pacific at 10-mile intervals that he knows
exactly the manpower and the cost and the
difficulty that it does take to get it, and perhaps
even the possibility of getting it in the time
frame that he wants. But I think that... As I say, if
a person has done his homework and he is aware of the
difficulties of getting things done at sea, I
don't think that this has to be a requirement. I
hesitated at your question because I know people
feel that way. When have you been to sea last? When
have you done this or that? And I think this only
comes from...
The people who are going to see, they really don't
want to go to see. And hopefully, most of the ones
that are out there are out there for their own
curiosity and getting something for their own
sake. So I hope I wishy-washy-ed my way out of that.
But that's a very definite opinion. I think as long
as the modeler is not working in the wilderness,
And of course, that's the task of someone who goes
to sea, to be able to explain and describe and
report his results. I don't see why the other
person can't read them without having to be
sitting on deck while he does it. That's all I can
probably say about that. OK.
Obviously, the computer, of course, in terms of
just data classification, data collection, and
data availability, the computer has done just
wonders for oceanography. Yet you hear an almost
constant complaint somehow the younger
oceanographers don't have enough math. Somehow
that their weaknesses in mathematics and... So a
comment as a potential employer. What do you think
is a major weakness that most young
oceanographers who come to work in and around you
have? Well of course you'll get a better answer as
to how prepared they are from the... faculty
members at the university. I certainly would say
that the professors we had aren't as tough or don't
seem to be turning out the thoroughness in
individuals that we went through. I think when we
get together and talk and listen to some of the
seminars or to talk to the people that are coming
out looking for jobs and finding out what they're
prepared to do, that there seems to be a little
slippage here. But
other than that, there's a whole spectrum of
ability in any student at any level. And I wouldn't
say that it's
a criticism or even a commonplace attribute that
students don't have the math that is necessary,
because one wonders what is it that one needs. It
appears today that you know, that you not only need
a complete series of vector equations, but
statistics and computers, computer graphics.
There's just so much more to learn and to know than
we had, say, even 10 or 20 years ago. I don't know how
they find all the time to put it in. There's no limit
to the proficiency that one should have in
statistics today, and yet that's only one phase.
That's sort of a number crunching attitude. And
when you get into
differential equations, there's no limit to how
much time you want to spend on becoming proficient
in differential equations. So I find it very
difficult to answer that question. There's no
limit to the proficiency that you would like in all
phases of mathematics because of the nature of the
interruption in time and space and data, the time
series aspects of data. And I don't see this
lacking. I think that
the papers that are evident in the literature show
a certainly inadequate mathematical background
in their analysis, for my mind. As a prospective
employer, Is there anything you would like to
advise students to do?
Well,
I don't know. I remember when Dr. Fleming. with
that hydrographic office. He used to tell the
people that came to him, put all your books away.
What I need and what you're going to get into isn't
in books. We're going to have to find it out
together. And I think we've advanced beyond that.
I think there are very definite techniques, even
in biology, geology, or chemistry, that you need
and these are mathematical techniques and so if I
was encouraging anybody in the ocean I would tell
them to forget the skin diving aspects or the round
the world trips or what have you and to concentrate
and then have a good background in mathematics
because whatever level that they either end up at
or are limited by they will make good use of in the
study of the ocean I think one thing that people
aren't prepared for, or
don't seem to be prepared for, is the tedious
proposal writing. I think most students that come
out have been sheltered by major professors who
have gone to the trouble to get grants, and they go
out and work, and their initial task is requires
them to jump in and go to work, that's fine. But very
quickly, they will have to come up with a proposal,
whether it's government or whether they're
working on a grant. And they will have to explain
what it is that they want to do and why. And this is
time consuming. And a lot of people object to this.
And very few people are trained in it. And yet, it's
one of the facts of life that most people come right
into head on. To be frank, some of them do very
poorly. We talked about mathematics. Some of them
really can't state what it is and why it is that he
wants to do it and what it is that he wants to do and
why it is significant. And you find that you have to
restructure some of the things that they do. So
it's just like any other decade or century that a
good, solid classical scholastic background is
needed still. This exotic science, if you want to
call it exotic.
What else are you going to? That's all I really can
say on that. Okay. That, again, is enough. Now,
obviously, you're training oceanography,
meteorology, marine biology. It's a very broad
education. Yeah. Is that one of your suggestions,
is that those people receiving an education
receive one this broadly construed? Well, I'm
changing my mind on that. One of the people that had
the greatest impact on my career was Dr. Fleming.
And of course, his courses at the university were
to give people a broad background rather than a
specific one. But a lot of his staff felt that the
specific one really was more important than the
broad one. So there was no conflict there, but less
the difference of opinion. He used to call himself
the last general oceanographer. Well, there are
many times that I felt that I inherited that term,
that I may be the last general oceanographer. And
in some cases, I thought that might be limiting.
But I find that the people that are specializing
are not are staying with their specialty to the
point where they're almost wringing themselves
dry. And yet by being in this specialty, they
really don't have the confidence and in many cases
the ability to become a program head or to become in
the supervisory capacity where he has to address
the many facets and the applications and the
usefulness of oceanography.
So I have gone in and out of this, the sense that I
must specialize in the one that generalization is
fine, but it's a very weak spot. And I'm finally
coming back to the point that most of the people
that are leading and guiding oceanography today
are more the generalists than the specialists. So
I don't object to that term anymore. In the sense of
Dr. Fleming, Wayne Burritt, although the
physical type is really guided oceanography at
Oregon State. Most of his work has been of a general
nature rather than a specific rigorous
mathematical approach. And you can go right on
down the line. I even think Stommel is becoming a
generalist, although he would probably deny it.
He still has a very unique and a very deep interest
in physical oceanography, but I think In fact, he
said in his book that oceanography requires the
broad at-sea approach and an understanding of
interactions. So I would have to leave that
question in that way. Any regrets?
Well, they're not regrets as much as if they are
sort of incompletions. I would have liked to have
whetted the appetite of the biologists and the
fishery service to become more interested and
involved in environmental studies. There's a
good sign that it's coming along now, but it sure
didn't come along as quickly as I wanted in the
sense that they will.
ask for assistance now, and in many cases are
making their own observations. Whereas when I
first came here, we literally had to fight for a
time at sea, even on a fishing boat, to ask for 24
hours in a two- or three-month cruise so that you
could get a sort of a sampling of just forage
organisms to try and assess the food of salmon was
considered not not in the cards, that they just had
to get on to their next fishing station. And I think
we're seeing that, like everyone else, I think the
meteorologists felt at one time in the early 1900s
that they could predict better weather if they had
more reporting stations, and they finally got
reporting stations all over the country, and
today they're saying they still can't forecast. I
think the fishery biologist felt that what he
needed was We're more fishing data and that if he
did that he could solve his problem and I think
we're getting to the point now where the ships are
collecting huge amounts of data and the
variability that is environmentally related is
becoming sharper and sharper rather than more
vague and they're beginning to realize that
they're going to have to address this question of
the environment really changing the
distribution and abundance of organisms. And so
there's nothing new in the sun there. It's just
time. And other than that, no. We've had a very
interesting phase. We've worked in an
international commission. We're involved in
numerous interdisciplinary programs. And
that's been our approach, to try and get a team of
people here. And I have always had a team. I have
never expanded into the physical group. We have
always had biologists on our team,
planktologists. At one time, we had covered all of
the fields of oceanography. When we had the data
buoys, we had an electronic technician to handle
our equipment, which is nothing today. But in
those days, he was quite unique. and a person in
primary production, secondary production in
descriptive oceanography, theoretical
oceanography, and in marine chemistry. And we had
this group, and
it should have been expanded two or three times to
be a totally effective group. And instead of that,
we were whittled down and had to fight our way like
anybody else does through the budgeting system
and what have you. But I think that this is it. The
universities claim, well, we have all these
departments. Therefore, we do integrated
studies. I don't think that's true. I think you
have to get these people at sea, work together. And
I think this is generally Dr. Fleming's
philosophy 20, 25 years ago. And I've tried to make
it work here. And I think I've shown that it would
work. I think I've shown that when you do permit
people to do this, you get very interesting
results. But I wouldn't say that it's caught on in
many places. So those are the only two regrets,
that we didn't get a commensurate group. What you
want to remember is that NOAA has made up of very
roughly 300 fishery biologists, about 6,000 to
7,000 meteorologists, and probably 100 bona fide
oceanographers. And so what we're trying to do is
Fisheries people realize that they're working in
the ocean, but they have other requirements for
their money. The meteorologists realize the
ocean changes the atmosphere, but they've been
plotting weather maps for years. They don't want
it. And I would hope that the three stand as a triad,
and they all. That would be my wish for
oceanography, is that there is a coordinated
group that puts the pieces together. I don't
object to the universities studying anything
they want at any time and any place. But to just put
it together and let it rest there for 10 or 15 years
because there's nobody that is working on the
puzzle that that's a piece of is a crime. And I would
like to see something in the order of 2,000 or 3,000
oceanographers. And I think that the country
would be amazed at what is going on in the ocean and
how it does apply to their livelihood and their
climate. So if that was a wish, then that's what I
would like. In fact, I wrote when Bob White came
into the system. We were in interior and joined
ESSA, which became NOAA. I told him, you know, take
care of your oceanographers. But he certainly was
unable to do very much in that area. So I have no
complaints. That's what I would wish would
happen. Is there anything you'd like to add to the
tape? Any comments you'd like to make? Which
questions missed?
No, I think that one thing that I would like to see
more of that I don't think really you touched on,
and that is international cooperation. And we
touched on it just with the Japanese, not with
other groups. Don Hood at the University of Alaska
has done just great work in trying to get the Soviet
Union, Canada, Japan, and Korea are interested in
studies in the Bering Sea. And he's had some
success at this. And I find this rather lacking in
other areas. There's a lot of one-on-one. You have
a friend that is in Japan, and you write a project
together, and you study it. I'm talking about
large-scale, multidisciplinary, integrated
investigations by countries. that have a finite
time period and a specific objective. I would like
to see more of this. We had some of it in the INPFC. We
get a lot of it here at the center. The Soviets will
come through, they're fishing Hague, and they
begin to realize that Hague fluctuates quite a
bit. And just a few months ago we gave an extensive
talk on the environment of the Hague. We haven't
discussed the environment in the INPF of salmon.
We're dealing with the environment of pollock and
ground fish along the coast. And I think that the
fisheries group deal with this, but they don't
deal with it. They deal with it at the level of
fishery oceanographers, someone that's used to
correlating temperature with fish or something
like that. We don't really deal here with the
oceanographers who have studied it as a system and
how it changes. And this is what Don Hood has done.
Now, I don't see very much of this all the way down
the coast here on that scale. I wouldn't take away
the fact that they are aware of foreign scientists
and they travel back and forth. But I don't
consider IDOE in this category and some of the
other programs. But if there was one person I think
that has taken an approach that I think is
necessary, it's that. Because I think What we are
going to need and will get, certainly, in five or 10
years is sort of a Pacific commission, sort of
something like the ICs in the Atlantic. In fact, we
jokingly call it Pisces, which, of course, is
fish, you see. But we're going to have to know what
is going on in the ocean, why it goes on, what effect
it has on the biota, and how the biota interacts.
When the Albert Corps come up to the salmon front,
or they eat the salmon, or the salmon run away, and
what is the front that they will or will not go
beyond? And if they do this, what happens to the
seals? And what happens to everything else? This
whole system has to be really laid out. And it can
only be done by some kind of an international
Pacific commission. And that's all I tried to do
here on a very, very small scale. And I think it will
come. I think it's necessary. But it will. It will
take a lot of planning, and hopefully it won't get
bogged down in administration. But I guess that's
another wish for the future that I would like to
see. So other than that, nothing.